2._React_-_basics/3._JSX.md, before:

# 3. JSX
Created Thursday 27 August 2020

#### Why

* React uses a declarative approach to code UIs. JSX makes this easy.
* JSX also makes the code 
	* Intuitive and readable, instead of function calls.
	* Both structure and structure-related-logic-**expressions (not all logic)** are kept together.
```JSX
const ul = document.createElement('ul')
const li = document.createElement('li')

ul.appendchild(li)
li.appendChild(document.createTextNode('...'))

/* Same as
	<ul>
		<li>...</li>
	</ul>
*/
```
Just imagine, the verbosity and unintuitiveness!

#### How
Handled by the Babel transpiler.

#### What

* Short for JavaScript XML
* JSX is *not* necessary for using React, basic JS is fine too.
* JSX is a syntactic sugar for JavaScript, and so can be stored in variables.


**Rules for JSX**

0. Like HTML except if specified otherwise.
1. Some reserved keywords are different:
	* ``className`` instead of ``class`` attribute.
	* ``htmlFor`` in HTML label tag instead of ``for``.
2. JS **expressions** can be enclosed in braces {}. But avoid this, keep JSX lean - the logic outside JSX and result variable in JSX.
```JSX
function ExpenseItem(props) {
  const month = 'March';
  const day = 24;
  return (<div>
		    <span> {day}th </span>
			<span> {month} </span>
		  </div>);
}
```
3. Components must start with a capital letter. 
4. JSX is an expression too, you can store it in variables or return it.
5. JSX can restart inside JS, but still JSX and JS should be differentiated with a {} for the JS part. Simply remember that JSX is an object and it doesn't make sense to write objects after one another. Example:
```JSX
const day = 24;
const month = 'March';
return (<div>
			{{day}<span>th</span> {month}}
		</div>);
// 24th March
```
And [more](https://flaviocopes.com/jsx/) rules.

#### About JSX

* JSX prevents injection attacks - everything is converted into a string before being rendered.
* JSX represents objects.

Commit message:

Why all components need one and only one container

2._React_-_basics/3._JSX.md, after:

# 3. JSX
Created Thursday 27 August 2020

#### Why

* React uses a declarative approach to code UIs. JSX makes this easy.
* JSX also makes the code 
	* Intuitive and readable, instead of function calls.
	* Both structure and structure-related-logic-**expressions (not all logic)** are kept together.
```JSX
const ul = document.createElement('ul')
const li = document.createElement('li')

ul.appendchild(li)
li.appendChild(document.createTextNode('...'))

/* Same as
	<ul>
		<li>...</li>
	</ul>
*/
```
Just imagine, the verbosity and unintuitiveness!

**Note**: React components are functions, and functions are supposed to return only one value. So, each component must have one and only one container.
#### How
Handled by the Babel transpiler.

#### What

* Short for JavaScript XML
* JSX is *not* necessary for using React, basic JS is fine too.
* JSX is a syntactic sugar for JavaScript, and so can be stored in variables.


**Rules for JSX**

0. Like HTML except if specified otherwise.
1. Some reserved keywords are different:
	* ``className`` instead of ``class`` attribute.
	* ``htmlFor`` in HTML label tag instead of ``for``.
2. JS **expressions** can be enclosed in braces {}. But avoid this, keep JSX lean - the logic outside JSX and result variable in JSX.
```JSX
function ExpenseItem(props) {
  const month = 'March';
  const day = 24;
  return (<div>
		    <span> {day}th </span>
			<span> {month} </span>
		  </div>);
}
```
3. Components must start with a capital letter. 
4. JSX is an expression too, you can store it in variables or return it.
5. JSX can restart inside JS, but still JSX and JS should be differentiated with a {} for the JS part. Simply remember that JSX is an object and it doesn't make sense to write objects after one another. Example:
```JSX
const day = 24;
const month = 'March';
return (<div>
			{{day}<span>th</span> {month}}
		</div>);
// 24th March
```
And [more](https://flaviocopes.com/jsx/) rules.

#### About JSX

* JSX prevents injection attacks - everything is converted into a string before being rendered.
* JSX represents objects.
