home/4_resource_itineraries/2_React_the_complete_guide/14_Sending_HTTP_requests/177_Sending_a_GET_request.md, before:

# 177. Sending a GET request
Created Monday 18 July 2022

### Why
To make send/receive data from/to the server. We usually use HTTP (or HTTPS).


### How
- A React app is fundamentally JavaScript code that runs in the browser, so we can use browser APIs (like `fetch`) as well as HTTP request libraries (like "axios").
- We'll be using the built in `fetch` because it's supported by all browsers, as of now. By default the HTTP verb is `GET`.

- Because network requests are handled asynchronously, we'll need to use state to cause a re-render when the request finishes.
- There are two cases for fetching:
	- Without `useEffect` - if fetch is triggered by the user or some other event.
	- With `useEffect` - need to fetch on app/component load.
  
Example of GET request - without `useEffect`, so using state:
```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true);
		fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode').then(response => response.json()).then(data => { setData(data); setLoading(false); });
	}

	return <>
			<button onClick={getProfile}>Load Data</button>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```
Observe the flow of this component:
1. Initially, both data and loading are false.
2. Upon button click, the `getProfile` function is run. The first line (`setLoading(true)`) causes a re-render, but the function execution continues. The loading text is shown in this render.
3. `fetch` runs, and if assuming it's a success, causes state changes `setData(data)` and `setLoading(false)`. Both state changes are batched and the component re-renders. The loading text is now absent, and data is displayed.
Note: The most important thing here is that the callback function `getProfile` keeps running even if the component re-renders. This works because state mutators are guaranteed to remain unchanged on re-renders.

Similarly, we can make requests on App/component load, without a user event. To do so, use `useEffect`. Of course, we still need state to cause a re-render:
```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true);
		fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode').then(response => response.json()).then(data => { setData(data); setLoading(false); });
	}

	const dataSignature = JSON.stringify(data); // to avoid infinite re-renders
	// need to stringify because object is a non-primitive data type
	
	useEffect(getProfile, [dataSignature]);
	
	return <>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```

- We can avoid do requests without state too, by using `ref`s to update DOM on network request success, but we won't be able to show "Loading..." UI, which is very important for UX. So it's better to use state.


### What
To make network requests:
1. Use some state to render change on request success.
2. Also keep a "isLoading" variable, and use it to show some loading state, like an animation or text.
3. Use `useEffect` if request must be sent on App/component load. For event triggered fetches (like button clicks), there's no need to use `useEffect`. The event callback can do the network request.


### Extra
#### How to make requests with a time limit? (not discussed in course)
Well, it is simple. Use [axios](https://stackoverflow.com/a/62082804/11392807) for straightforward code.

If using `fetch`, do this:
1. Maintain an extra state "timeLimitExceeded" initialized to `false`.
2. Run the request (e.g. `fetch`) and a timer (with time limit) beside each other. Save this timer.
3. Nest this request and timer into a "void" promise, using `new Promise((resolve, reject) => ...)`. Resolve inside the network request, and reject with an error inside the timer.
4. Mutate "timeLimitExceeded" state to `true` in the catch clause of this promise. Add some UI element conditionally which displays an appropriate message.
5. In the `finally` clause, clear the timeout, using `window.clearTimeout`. Doing this to avoid running the timer if request was successful.
6. Nest this void promise inside a function.
7. Use this function in `useEffect` or as an event callback.

Code example:
```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';

function TimedRequestApp() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	const [timeLimitExceeded, setTimeLimitExceeded] = useState(false);

	const maxTimeLimit = 10000; // in millisecond
	
	function requestHandler() {
		setLoading(true);
		setTimeLimitExceeded(false); // remove existing message

		let limitTimer;
		new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
			limitTimer = setTimeout(() => {
				reject(new Error('Time Limit Exceeded'));
			}, maxTimeLimit)

			fetch(url).then(response => response.json()).then(data => {
				...
				// app-data logic
				...
			
				resolve();
			})
		})
		.catch(() => setTimeLimitExceeded(true))
		.finally(() => {
			setLoading(false));
			clearTimeout(limitTimer); // prevents execution if request successful
		});
	}
	
	return <>
			<button onClick={requestHandler}>Load Data</button>
			{loading && <p>Loading...</p>}
			{timeLimitExceeded && <p>Time Limit Exceeded! Try again</p>}
			{!loading && !timeLimitExceeded && data && JSON.stringify(data)}
		   </>;
}

export default TimedRequestApp;
```
Of course, we can also use `Promise.all`.

#### Using async-await
Make the request handler an `async` function and replace `.then` by `await`s. Example:
```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	async function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true); // synchronous piece
		
		const response = await fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode');
		const data = await response.json();
		
		setData(data); // synchronous piece
		setLoading(false); // synchronous piece
	}

	const dataSignature = JSON.stringify(data); // to avoid infinite re-renders
	// need to stringify because object is a non-primitive data type
	
	useEffect(getProfile, [dataSignature]);
	
	return <>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```
I have not completed learning about `async/await`, but it seems like replacing `.then` by `await` and using `try/catch/finally` blocks instead of `.catch`, `.finally` seems to work.

Commit message:

Add more info about loading

home/4_resource_itineraries/2_React_the_complete_guide/14_Sending_HTTP_requests/177_Sending_a_GET_request.md, after:

# 177. Sending a GET request
Created Monday 18 July 2022

### Why
To make send/receive data from/to the server. We usually use HTTP (or HTTPS).


### How
- A React app is fundamentally JavaScript code that runs in the browser, so we can use browser APIs (like `fetch`) as well as HTTP request libraries (like "axios").
- We'll be using the built in `fetch` because it's supported by all browsers, as of now. By default the HTTP verb is `GET`.

- Because network requests are handled asynchronously, we'll need to use state to cause a re-render when the request finishes.
- Keep an "isLoading" boolean state too. We set this to `true` on button click or App/component load, just before invoking the network request. We also add a conditional UI component for rendering "Loading..." text/animation. We set "isLoading" back to `false` once the request is complete. This is a standard UX practice.
- There are two cases for fetching:
	- Without `useEffect` - if fetch is triggered by the user or some other event.
	- With `useEffect` - need to fetch on app/component load.
  
Example of GET request - without `useEffect`, so using state:
```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true);
		fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode').then(response => response.json()).then(data => { setData(data); setLoading(false); });
	}

	return <>
			<button onClick={getProfile}>Load Data</button>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```
Observe the flow of this component:
1. Initially, both data and loading are false.
2. Upon button click, the `getProfile` function is run. The first line (`setLoading(true)`) causes a re-render, but the function execution continues. The loading text is shown in this render.
3. `fetch` runs, and if assuming it's a success, causes state changes `setData(data)` and `setLoading(false)`. Both state changes are batched and the component re-renders. The loading text is now absent, and data is displayed.
Note: The most important thing here is that the callback function `getProfile` keeps running even if the component re-renders. This works because state mutators are guaranteed to remain unchanged on re-renders.

Similarly, we can make requests on App/component load, without a user event. To do so, use `useEffect`. Of course, we still need state to cause a re-render:
```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true);
		fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode').then(response => response.json()).then(data => { setData(data); setLoading(false); });
	}

	const dataSignature = JSON.stringify(data); // to avoid infinite re-renders
	// need to stringify because object is a non-primitive data type
	
	useEffect(getProfile, [dataSignature]);
	
	return <>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```

- We can avoid do requests without state too, by using `ref`s to update DOM on network request success, but we won't be able to show "Loading..." UI, which is very important for UX. So it's better to use state.


### What
To make network requests:
1. Use some state to render change on request success.
2. Also keep a "isLoading" variable, and use it to show some loading state, like an animation or text.
3. Use `useEffect` if request must be sent on App/component load. For event triggered fetches (like button clicks), there's no need to use `useEffect`. The event callback can do the network request.


### Extra
#### How to make requests with a time limit? (not discussed in course)
Well, it is simple. Use [axios](https://stackoverflow.com/a/62082804/11392807) for straightforward code.

If using `fetch`, do this:
1. Maintain an extra state "timeLimitExceeded" initialized to `false`.
2. Run the request (e.g. `fetch`) and a timer (with time limit) beside each other. Save this timer.
3. Nest this request and timer into a "void" promise, using `new Promise((resolve, reject) => ...)`. Resolve inside the network request, and reject with an error inside the timer.
4. Mutate "timeLimitExceeded" state to `true` in the catch clause of this promise. Add some UI element conditionally which displays an appropriate message.
5. In the `finally` clause, clear the timeout, using `window.clearTimeout`. Doing this to avoid running the timer if request was successful.
6. Nest this void promise inside a function.
7. Use this function in `useEffect` or as an event callback.

Code example:
```jsx
import { useState } from 'react';

function TimedRequestApp() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	const [timeLimitExceeded, setTimeLimitExceeded] = useState(false);

	const maxTimeLimit = 10000; // in millisecond
	
	function requestHandler() {
		setLoading(true);
		setTimeLimitExceeded(false); // remove existing message

		let limitTimer;
		new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
			limitTimer = setTimeout(() => {
				reject(new Error('Time Limit Exceeded'));
			}, maxTimeLimit)

			fetch(url).then(response => response.json()).then(data => {
				...
				// app-data logic
				...
			
				resolve();
			})
		})
		.catch(() => setTimeLimitExceeded(true))
		.finally(() => {
			setLoading(false));
			clearTimeout(limitTimer); // prevents execution if request successful
		});
	}
	
	return <>
			<button onClick={requestHandler}>Load Data</button>
			{loading && <p>Loading...</p>}
			{timeLimitExceeded && <p>Time Limit Exceeded! Try again</p>}
			{!loading && !timeLimitExceeded && data && JSON.stringify(data)}
		   </>;
}

export default TimedRequestApp;
```
Of course, we can also use `Promise.all`.

#### Using async-await
Make the request handler an `async` function and replace `.then` by `await`s. Example:
```jsx
import { useState, useEffect } from 'react';

const App() {
	const [data, setData] = useState(null);
	const [loading, setLoading] = useState(false);
	
	async function getProfile() {
		setLoading(true); // synchronous piece
		
		const response = await fetch('https://api.github.com/users/sanjarcode');
		const data = await response.json();
		
		setData(data); // synchronous piece
		setLoading(false); // synchronous piece
	}

	const dataSignature = JSON.stringify(data); // to avoid infinite re-renders
	// need to stringify because object is a non-primitive data type
	
	useEffect(getProfile, [dataSignature]);
	
	return <>
			<p>{loading && 'Loading...'}</p>
			<p>{!loading && data && JSON.stringify(data)}</p>
		   </>;
}

export default App;
```
I have not completed learning about `async/await`, but it seems like replacing `.then` by `await` and using `try/catch/finally` blocks instead of `.catch`, `.finally` seems to work.
