home/4_resource_itineraries/2_React_the_complete_guide/20_MultiPage_SPA_React_Router/270_Working_with_Links.md, before:

# 270. Working with Links
Created Sunday 28 August 2022

### Situation
- We used `Route` to conditionally render components based on a URL. But what about hyperlinks, what happens when we click one? 
- Does it override browser default of making a request and change the URL? Well, no[(see code)](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/react-router-demo/commit/a2c7b4830dcd4126fbcd4dc98046605c7bae00a4). The `a` tag is impervious to effects from the React Router, this is by design because even in an SPA, we may have links to external resources. So `a` tags will cause a reload (which we wish to avoid for in-app links).

### Solution
Instead of `a` tags, use the `Link` component provided React Router,  for internal links (i.e. within the app). The `Link` component, on click:
1. Changes the URL
2. Prevents requests on URL change
3. Re-renders the app, so that `Route`s are evaluated according to the new URL.
   
- Syntax - takes in a `to` prop of type string
	```jsx
	<a href="/welcome">Welcome</a>; // will reload page.
	
	<Link to="/welcome">Welcome</Link>; // will do client side routing
	```

### About Link
- Visually, both `a` and `Link` behave in the same way.
- Internally, `Link` tag is a specialized `a` tag.

Commit message:

Link needs to be inside BrowserRouter

home/4_resource_itineraries/2_React_the_complete_guide/20_MultiPage_SPA_React_Router/270_Working_with_Links.md, after:

# 270. Working with Links
Created Sunday 28 August 2022

### Situation
- We used `Route` to conditionally render components based on a URL. But what about hyperlinks, what happens when we click one? 
- Does it override browser default of making a request and change the URL? Well, no[(see code)](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/react-router-demo/commit/a2c7b4830dcd4126fbcd4dc98046605c7bae00a4). The `a` tag is impervious to effects from the React Router, this is by design because even in an SPA, we may have links to external resources. So `a` tags will cause a reload (which we wish to avoid for in-app links).

### Solution
Instead of `a` tags, use the `Link` component provided React Router,  for internal links (i.e. within the app). The `Link` component, on click:
1. Changes the URL
2. Prevents requests on URL change
3. Re-renders the app, so that `Route`s are evaluated according to the new URL.
   
- Syntax - takes in a `to` prop of type string
	```jsx
	<a href="/welcome">Welcome</a>; // will reload page.
	
	<Link to="/welcome">Welcome</Link>; // will do client side routing
	```

Note: `Link`s won't work outside `BrowserRouter`. This is not usually a concern because `BrowserRouter` nests the root component.

### About Link
- Visually, both `a` and `Link` behave in the same way.
- Internally, `Link` tag is a specialized `a` tag.
