# 10. Distributing to the App store
Created Sat Dec 30, 2023 at 1:57 PM

Now, I'm assuming you have trigger build in expo.

## Step 1
- Go to https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/ and log in
- Go to 'My apps'
- Create a new app
- Choose platform - for phones, just iOS is ok
- Add name, primary app lang (English)
- Bundle id - whatever was generated by expo during build
- SKU - the unique reverse DNS identifier of our app. i.e. same
- You should be able to download an '.ipa' file now. Download it.

## Step 2 - upload to app store
1. On mac, install the "Transporter" app from AppStore. And log in.
2. Select 'Add app' and select the ipa file. Or drag and drop the file into Transporter.
3. The app will show up in 'Active' tab. Press 'Deliver CTA'
4. The app will now be uploaded to app store by transporter. Takes a few minutes

This may be done for multiple versions of the app - usually language variations, or for A/B testing.

## Step 3 - check, tweak, add testers
1. Go back to https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/
2. Check the 'Activity' tab and see if app(s) were uploaded and built fine.
3. Optionally, go to TestFlight tab, and setup tests. Further testers may be added from here, including inviting external testers. Of course, external testers will need to download the TestFlight mobile app.

## Step 4 - submission
Go to the next tab, and add description, promotional info, changes etc.
Have to provide some screenshots, urls, keywords too.

This will be displayed in the AppStore.

## Step 5 - wait for approval
The app approval takes 2 days or so, and it it's ok, the app will be live.
Or else, you'll be communicated with possible changes.
If you get some, make the changes, and then, follow all steps from the start ;(

Btw, you'll need to bump up the build number in this case.