# 343. Continuing with the project
Created Sunday 25 December 2022

- Add UI code to do a HTTP POST call to the server. [Code](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/nextjs-first-realistic-tutorial/commit/23a9c01fd1b17093a81e4708038528fae2f57fb6)
- Add code to store data received from client, in the MongoDB instance. For this we need to communicate with the instance. [Code](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/nextjs-first-realistic-tutorial/commit/81f2476549b2d6958641bc45751198ccfe5cb112)
- Add code to `/pages/index.js` in `getStaticProps` to fetch meetups. Note, we don't need to create an API endpoint like `api/meetups` and the call it from the client side code. It will work fine, but it has several issues - why are we making a server call for something that should come pre-rendered. Also, it makes no sense to call the endpoint from `getStaticProps` either, since we are already at the server - why call our-self (server)! ?
- We get an error - we can only return JSON serializable data as props, from `getStaticProps`. The source of the error is the `_id` attribute contained in each element of returned meetup array, whose value is not JSON serializable. To solve this, convert it to a string (`.toString`) before returning from `getStaticProps`. [Code](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/nextjs-first-realistic-tutorial/commit/4f57ec46ed6ad4dd7d52554b7b906262d333b7c1)
- In the details page. Fetch all meetup ids to be used in `getStaticPaths`. [Code](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/nextjs-first-realistic-tutorial/commit/9394e8ea8a148e583090a8d2873e249fe07fb5a6)
- Add code to get the meetup details for the current path (during static generation) in `getStaticProps`. For this, we use the **`findOne`** function (provided by MongoDB) and pass the `_id` criteria with value first converted into the required format using the **`ObjectId`** function (provided by MongoDB). We needed this conversion since we were stored and worked with the "\_id" as a string. [Code](https://github.com/exemplar-codes/nextjs-first-realistic-tutorial/commit/cbf7ccab55aa8ffab69b653d569bf4cd283d437b)